All right, and we are back.
On to the next concept for you to digest
and verbally vomit in your next meeting.
Let's address a term you've heard me
and everybody else at some point say.
It's the word "language."
I'm obviously not talking about verbal languages,
we're talking about programming languages.
I'm sure you've heard it several times before, but
you might not have really gotten what it actually means,
and well, it's relatively simple.
All programming at the end of the day is a way to write instructions
for a computer to understand and then run with.
Computers don't speak English, they speak computer.
Specifically they speak machine code, as we discussed in section 1.
Unfortunately, not all sets of instructions are written in the same way,
nor do they have the same rules associated with them.
When and if you program, you'll have a set of rules as to
what you have to type for the computer to "get it".
If you want to refer to something, there might be a very specific spelling,
if you want it to save something, you'll probably have to
specify precisely how and where it should do that.
That set of rules is what makes up a programming language.
It's almost identical to human languages.
I speak English and if I gave English instructions to
someone who only spoke Chinese, it wouldn't compute.
Unless they already speak English, which is plausible,
considering in about ten years they're going to run the world.
Of course, if that Chinese speaker spoke back to me in Chinese,
I would look at them in a very similar blank and confused face.
Probably something like this.
We could have both expressed the same exact thing,
we could've both said "This course is awful,"
but they just had two separate
rule sets to follow in order to speak it.
You also don't hate this course.
Like human languages, programming languages
are only good for software or hardware
that is designed specifically to understand it.
If you want tell a server to send a computer file for downloading,
and you did it in, let's say, a front-end
programming language, it wouldn't work.
So why is it that there are languages at all?
Why isn't it the case that there is only one language and
all software and machines understood that language?
I seriously wish this was the case, but like
everything else, humans just screw it up.
And it's very similar to human languages.
Why exactly are there multiple human languages?
Well, everyone knows that humans built
the tower of Babel and it angered God,
so he decided to troll us by making
us not understand each other,
and forever make it impossible
to order goods from Alibaba.com.
I'm kidding, obviously, but the answer to
why we don't have one unified human language
is similar to why we don't have a unified programming language.
Programming has developed over the years, and over the years,
as more and more people contributed to it, standards and rule sets
got better, more precise, and more efficient.
In this case, it's great that, hey, this language,
this new language is way more effective
than its predecessor, but unfortunately,
that old language is probably going to be
baked into something we still use every day.
Most operating systems are written in an old language, because
they started a long time ago, and it would be
insanely expensive to rewrite the whole thing.
The other reason is that different groups of people came up
with their own rule sets for their own specific needs simultaneously,
and unfortunately, there was no giant consortium to get everyone
to just make one language from the beginning.
In the resources I've included an image of how
programming languages have changed over time.
Check it out, it's kind of like a family tree.
Also, as technology developed, we
needed to do more and different things.
No one in the 90s, when they were
designing the original language for servers,
anticipated how many different things and
use cases we would need to handle for,
say, mobile websites, thus we needed big
changes to accommodate this, but only over time.
Ok, let's wrap this up.
Languages are just like human languages.
Different ways of giving the same set of instructions.
They were developed for a specific
use case, and as an inherent problem
with any new technology, we made languages
work for what we needed now
and not for what we anticipated needing in the future.
Classic humans.
All right, now that we've cleared that hurdle,
I'll see you in the next lecture!